She said i should write a poem about my life. It was much more difficult than i thought it ought to be. I thought that it would be easy since I already enjoy writing poetry and all my anthologies are snapshots of snapshot of my perspective on what happens to, within and around me. As it turns out, my emotions are the true sparks of my poetic flame, I write everything from an emotional lens. I experience life and it induces thoughts and voices that want to dissect the experience into an intellectual or philosophic object, that way it plays nice with all the other elements of my self. It is like machine that breaks down raw, unprocessed sensory input from both my internal and external worlds and converts into theories, experiments, ideologies, values and more questions until a single universal rationale is created, then it can be packed away and recalled later should we need it. My emotions are witnesses and guards in the process. As the churning happens, I ride an emotional rollercoaster- going where the dissection tells us to go. As the experience is being iteratively criticised, I feel. And when it gets too close to breaking down my fragile parts or it hits too close to home, the churning is redirected. I cannot afford to be broken by the world outside and the world within my self, Ao Khonale. This is too much to bear, the inconsistent feelings, the threat of collapse, the need for resolution, the drive to dissect rather than experience...it's all too much. So, I write it out. Each poem has an extremely limited scope. From my thoughts about that one girl and my mind's wandering to life experiences like meeting my father and thinking about the calluses on my hands. It is just not possible for me to write about something as grand as my life. That requires so much processing power and psychological resilience that I reckon I would need a couple of weeks to just the right words to best describe my feelings. Not to mention, I don't write long form poetry. I run out expressive words and phrases due to my reluctance to read creative literature, my lexicon is limited. I don't know how to best explain this but I pride myself on my ability to express myself in as few words as possible, each line must mean something, each word must be relatable and each stanza must carry a feeling. I do have a lot to say, not because there is so much that can be said, but simply because I enjoy the challenge of narrowing down that overwhelming wave of emotions to manageable phrases while ensuring the essence is not lost. Additionally, feelings do not stay when you express them, as soon as i start verbalising my feelings then I start letting them go, as soon as I start making sense of the experience then I no longer need to keep churning. Over time, a poem about my life would be reduced to how I felt that day about certain events in my life and not necessarily my holistic perspective on my life. I reckon this is what makes it such a good coping mechanism. Let's assume the mentioned premises are null, let's say I have met them all and overcame them in their respective ways. How will I survive? My emotions are like the prophets in the New Testament Bible, they are witnesses of events and guards for what is good. They ensure that the churning is converted into something I can verbally express, they monitor the behaviour of the churning and record any fluctuations, more importantly, they guard my beliefs, self-concept and values. Whenever the churning storm threatens any of those or seems like it will, they alert me to ease up and keep things safe. If I try to churn the entirety of my life experience, the very safety measures in place that alert and counter the churning threat could fail. Best I use IT stuff to explain it. The OS has programs and functions in place to alert the user of various systems issues and threats, these are written into the kernel. If a virus manages to write itself into the kernel, it significantly undermines the security measures' ability to alert and address the system threats and issues. In a similar vein, my emotional judgements and measures are based on my life experiences, if try to churn the foundation of the very thing protecting me from the churning, I am applying for psychological breakdown. I am scared that I might go too far, things might make too much sense, I would experience my life first-hand, raw and unprocessed. I am not confident that I can survive that. Best case scenario, I breakdown and kill myself, worst case scenario- the suicide attempt fails and I have to live with an analytical psyche that has cracked and a consciousness that almost experienced death, I would honestly try the attempt again a few more times until I finally get it right.