My loneliness worries me sometimes.
For the most part, I keep to myself and really push life in my own lane. It's a peaceful and simple way of life. I try my best not to bother people and not cause a ruckus. I do everything I can do solo and try to develop some sense of independence, even when such is not necessary or avoidable. I am not sure why I am like this, all I know is that I have gotten so good at being alone that I ca no longer see myself with others...let alone be with them. My strong sense of solitude has rendered me socially incompetent. It was not a real concern when I had institutional protection and buffers, I always had work to keep me preoccupied and the environment provided me a default milieu. Now, my life is truly in my hands and I have no idea what to do with it. I have a lot of regrets, being hyper-independent is amongst them. I become so anxious when I think about going out to people and just visiting them. Shame? Regret? Fear of rejection? I don't know. In any case, I would rather stay In my safe shell than to put myself out there. The worst part is that these are people who genuinely want to see me and catch up. The worst part is that these are people that just want to share love. My insecurities, fears, assumptions led me to deny myself love. I would rather stay in my home and pretend to be loved than head into the world and experience real love. I have this lingering fear that I am my own worst enemy, hell is empty and I am legion. I wish I could stop projecting my feelings about myself on people who just want to prove how wrong these projections are. I wish I could stop imagining enemies where there are people who love me. Iwant them close to me at all times, I want to feel the warmth of laughter, the breath of fresh air from a facing smiling at your sight, the deep admiration for who you are rather than what you can do. I am worried that I have been protecting myself for so longa against potential harm that I do not even notice that the war has ended, the weapons have been dropped and now it is time to break bread with people we once called enemies. I am so scared of being shot, that my killer may be across that table from me that  I eat with my gun in my hand, the steel handle and blazing nozzle distract from the war soup and conversation inside this warm cottage in the middle of winter. I am everything that has held me together, and I will be damned if I let anyone kill me again.This constant state of alertness means I can never truly be present, and although I have grown past certain wounds, the scars serve as reminders, the blood will never dry. My ass has grown and my self-awareness too, I can see these patterns and notice my tendency to armour up if they make me smile 12 seconds beyond my being polite, but my hyper-vigilance has just gone undercover, I am hardly ever at ease around people, now it's worse because i cannot even reason myself out of it. It is just this persistent, lingering fear that I cannot rationalise or put into words. It is like I am in an active warzone and enemies are coming but there is no visual. I cant imagine anyone being comfortable around the mess I am...the mess I believe I am. So, i have grown estranged to everyone and everything that has not explicit business stated with me. Unfortunately, this is rude. People want the freedom to visits and be visited, the very fact of visiting is the end in itself. Checking up on them is the goal, nothing more.I think part of the reason is that I am afraid of being myself. I have always felt like I do too much. Like I am too curious, too talkative, too critical, too honest, too insensitive, too quiet, too reserved, too serious. I do not genuinely believe I am all these things, I just have yet to experience someone who has the capacity to handle me. I am curious, talkative, critical, honest, insensitive, quiet, reserved and serious, but since the people who raised me are sensitive, it is easy to believe my self average is too much. My typical strategy is to do the exact opposite, tilt the counter-weight aggressively. This way i can learn to find that sweet spot. Its what I refer to as a dialectic approach, where two opposing ideas competitively refine each other to produce harmony...it's real, look it up. Of course my nervous system is not too keen on my approach, in fact it counters my counters, but each piece of evidence teaches it that in any given situation, the opposing idea may be harmless or necessary, if neither is true then I learn that being wrong is survivable. In any case, my personal culture is challenged and its authority is forever in question. Recently I have been learning to drift away from my martyrdom disguised as empathy by being totally unreasonable. Honestly, it was the worst experience I could have ever put myself through. But gradually, I have been learning to set up boundaries, express my needs and not setting myself on fire to keep others warm. I though I knew who I am, it turns out i was just consumed by years of conditioning, adaptation and survival mode instincts. One quality I though was not actually mine but a product of conditions is my introversion... turns out I just genuinely don't like large groups of people and are ok with spending time in low-noise, quiet spaces like libraries and dark rooms. Bit by bit, I am learning to unravel the person I am, I reckon if I can be comfortable handling me then I should grow more comfortable with people not being to handle me.Maybe it's  skill issue. Sometimes I can be weird. Granted this could just be my inconsistency with context and my stubbornness to adapt to it but for the most part I am really on  tangent. I laugh too loudly at random jokes, I speak too fast, I stumble over my words, I cannot keep conversation going, I have performative facial expressions, and yes... I tend to speak more English than you average kasi gent. These are skills and qualities I adopted because i though the world was uniform, consistent and stable during my days at trauma-ville. My orientation toward English over my vernacular language is just an expressive preference. The language undoubtedly has more words and phrases to express complex ideas that I find myself drawn to. Sesotho is a beautiful language but its social lexicon imbued in the context it is in, basically, all the words you can know and use to express yourself are greatly dependent on context. While those from Lesotho may have words for certain kinds of cows, horses, blankets, sticks and natural elements, Basotho from Vaal or Johannesburg may not know them are thus inhibited from expressing their ideas about such things to other Sotho people, and vice versa. Understandably this is just a normal knowledge and cultural gap on basis of geography, but the same cannot be said for the coloniser's language. No matter where I am and who I am with, the lexicon remains consistent and my expressiveness can be fully harnessed.  Related to my expressiveness are my facial expressions, I feel like those cringe tik-tok videos of people pulling faces you would only see in anime...I hate those so much. For the most part I feel like I am pretending with my face, like the expression I am making is either not what anormal person would make or I am just not emoting at all. So i compensate by taking full control of what my face does. I eye-roll, gasp, cringe and pout intentionally. This often feels like I am doing too much and I am being sarcastic whereas all I want to do is make the speaker see that I with them. I do speak fast and stumble over my words. Two reasons: 	I do not know what to say after someone else has spoken & I want to get my thoughts across before I forget them or I make the rest of the conversation about you again. My mind is running somewhere for something  and is moving at lightspeed, I am not always sure what it is fetching or why it is more important than the conversation at hand. I will be honest, half the time, I have no idea what we are talking about nor am I fully registering your words. I need to speak as quick as my thoughts come and go and yes, that entails tripping over myself and occasionally ignoring social cues and context. I hardly ever know what you are saying, and even when I do, my mind is already preoccupied with my response. It is  a skill issue and I have a mental handicap.